we start with breaking news on the
Israel Gaza War the Israeli military has
said that more than a million
Palestinians must leave the northern
Gaza Strip within the next 24 hours
ahead of an expected ground operation
there in response the UN spokesman
Stefan duer said the United Nations
considers it impossible for such a
movement to take place without
devastating humanitarian consequences
the United Nations strongly appeal for
any such order if confirmed to be
rescinded avoiding what could transform
what is already a tragedy into a
calamitous situation well that statement
has sparked an angry reaction from
Israel the country's ambassador to the
United Nations said Israel is just
trying to minimize harm to gazans for
many years the UN has turned a blind eye
to the arming of Hamas and the use of
the civilian population the response
says and civilian infrastructure
structure in the Gaza Strip as a hiding
place for weapons and
murder well let's turn to the scene live
in Gaza right now where it has just gone
9:00 in the morning the UN said the
order by the Israeli military also
applied to all of its staff and those
sheltered in un facilities in a
statement released after a sixth night
of air strikes the Israel Defense Forces
said that in the following days it would
continue to operate significantly in
Gaza City it said Hamas terrorists were
hiding in Gaza City inside tunnels
underneath houses and inside buildings
populated with Innocent civilians well
Hamas official quoted by the Reuters
news agency said that the relocation
warning from Israel was fake propaganda
that's the view there in Gaza right now
the Israeli military has said it struck
750 military military Targets in
Northern Gaza
overnight let's give you a sense of the
geography in Gaza here's a map of Israel
where you can see Gaza and the West Bank
marked what the Israeli military is
saying is that everyone living in
Northern Gaza should relocate to the
southern end over the next 24 hours now
that's more than a million people about
half the population of the entire Gaza
Strip Nick Johnson has
more
Israeli air power continues to strike
the Gaza
Strip buildings flattened in the blink
of an eye entire neighborhoods reduced
to Rubble Israel says it's dropped 6,000
bombs on Hamas Targets in Gaza over the
past six days with every Fallen Building
stories of human suffering
[Music]
we're told this girl has lost all her
immediate
family doctors say the entire Health
System here is close to breaking point I
think the whole medical sector and the
health department maybe will collapse
maybe in two or three days I I don't
think that they can manage it the
hospital is full of
patients the Israeli military has called
for the entire population of Northern
Gaza to relocate to the South within the
next 24 hours the UN says this would
involve the displacement of more than a
million people and that such an
undertaking would have devastating
humanitarian
consequences Israelis are still reeling
from last Saturday's attack by Hamas
this video shows what remains of a
kibuts in southern Israel it was here
where 75-year-old David Moshe was killed
by gunman his wife Adena was kidnapped
their granddaughter annat describes that
moment they took her through the
window she's a 72 years old
woman she's sick she have heart
issues she watched her husband died
right in front of
her and right after after they got her
own the
motorcycle and she had
to hold the terrorist that just murdered
her
husband they were together for over 50
years US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin seen here at an Israeli donation
center promised unending American
support for Israel following talks with
prime minister Benjamin metan yahu is
due to meet the Palestinian president
Mahmud abas later the president of the
European commission Ursula Von delion
will also visit Israel later today in
what's been described as a show of
solidarity with the victims of the Hamas
attacks behind the politics the people
in Tel Aviv a vigil for those murdered
one candle for each victim each day
bringing news of another life lost Nick
Johnson BBC
news well we've been speaking to NAA
shawa the regional country relations
manager for Oxfam inside Gaza well she's
one of the 1.1 million residents of
Northern Gaza who've been told to leave
by
Israel there's so much um chaos in in in
Gaza uh we managed to leave at uh at
like 4:30 a.m. um we are about um um 15
people here we moved to another location
South and um we we think I mean
basically now asking this
question is clearly puts um puts the the
reminder that Israel can do whatever
whatever it wants and U nobody can stop
it obviously so the arrogance of of
Israel is is has been like that for for
decades so obviously now it's happening
again and it's um simply on the news and
everyone is watching while this another
catastrophe is actually taking place
right now and everyone is is leaving
It's All About Kids elderly everyone the
roads are being bombed while we were
traveling now there is bombing and
smelling
smoke what is this madness are we going
to come back to any of our homes when we
were leaving we were like just looking
at things as if we're not going to see
them again of course it's not feasible
and of course you'll have hundreds if
not more of casualties and you'll have
destruction and then what Bravo Israel
yeah that's great the work that uh we
are supposed to be doing is simply not
feasible and not possible with the
extent of Destruction with the that
there is no uh no uh Seas fire there is
no uh humanitarian Corridor there is
nothing nothing is is is even discussed
or or or suggested we just hear it in in
in the media and discussions that that
doesn't allow for any kind of response
so people are simply suffering and will
continue to suffer in this placement in
the areas they are in in the schools or
in the streets now it's going to be
everywhere not only in whatever
designated schools it's going to be
everywhere and yes we are hearing about
know no water no enough food uh all all
all these
things well let's cross live now to our
correspondent Anna Foster who's near the
Israel Lebanon border Anna it's really
good to have you you're in a key
location aren't you to explore what's
going to happen next with the militant
group heah uh that's uh located in
Lebanon what have you been hearing
yeah there's real concern about this
northern border as you mentioned hez
blah who are base across in Lebanon a
very powerful uh political and military
group in Lebanon backed by Iran also
like Hamas in Gaza they are an
organization that has been designated a
terrorist organization by the US the UK
uh and other countries as well now the
question is whether or not if there is a
ground offensive in Gaza that Hezbollah
in the North in Lebanon will decide to
try try and support Hamas and will
essentially attack Israel from the north
now this is a it's a lengthy border if
you look at Gaza and you look at that
area we talking about how how sort of
relatively small it is down there um
along here you've got basically the
whole strip of Northern Israel so a lot
of troops have been sent here to
reinforce this area 300,000 reservists
have been called up but many of them
we've been seeing have been arriving on
buses in cars and they are being sent
along here because it is a real latent
concern also when you hear the us
talking about the support that they are
providing to Israel uh they're sending
of course their aircraft carrier their
Fleet of ships they've sent initial um
uh shipments this week of of arms as
well and they say of course that is to
support Israel uh in its war with Gaza
but also they talk about additional
scenarios and what that means the
subtext of that is that they are
preparing in case there is a significant
escalation here in the north as well
Anna of course the the the worries about
a widening conflict are are ever present
what have you been hearing from Iran and
and what has Hezbollah itself been
saying or
doing well there've already been small
incidents and I say small incidents
along the border this week at any other
time if what we'd seen in the last week
wasn't happening in Gaza these would
actually have been extremely significant
incidents it would have been the main
thing that we were talking about because
Hezbollah and Palestinian Islamic Jihad
which is another islamist militant Group
which is based in uh in Gaza but also in
Lebanon they have fired uh rockets and
missiles across this border um Israel
has responded with its fighter jets
which have targeted uh PJ and Hezbollah
infrastructure on the other side of the
Border in Lebanon as well there have
been Israeli soldiers uh who were killed
several days ago when there was an
incursion from the north there were some
gunmen who came across and in that
battle to try and contain things um a
senior Israeli soldier a deputy
Battalion Commander was killed along
with colleagues um certainly when we
were here the day before yesterday there
was what turned out to be a false alarm
but it was a rumor of a new aerial
incursion from the north we spent about
90 minutes in a a shelter with a group
of local armed men who were trying to
find out information what was really
significant at that moment I think was
what you saw on things like social media
you know the the way that the rumor mill
just went into overdrive instantly and
it it sort of shows you how how nervous
people are a lot of people along here
have chosen to to leave their
communities all together because when
you are right on the border they have
seen what's happened in southern Israel
they have seen what happened when Hamas
crossed over from Gaza so some people
here are staying put staying near
shelters staying safe but some people
are choosing to leave all together while
they just live in the midst of that
uncertainty about what might happen next
if we broaden our view Anna we know that
the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is is touring the region for the
next few days what countries really hold
weight when it comes to possibly
containing this
conflict well Egypt has always been an
important mediator when there've been
escalations before around Gaza Egypt to
often that the country that steps in and
and talks with uh with Israel and with
the Palestinians with Hamas and tries to
to negotiate you know some sort of some
sort of agreement I mean it's happened
before you know tensions been deescalate
that way I think when you look at what's
happening now the suggestion is that
things might have gone too far at this
stage Israel has said that there will be
a significant response to what has
happened here uh also in terms of those
hostages that are being held again
hostage negotiations are important um
countries like Qatar I mean you
mentioned Iran of course you know Iran
uh supports Hamas supports Hezbollah but
those sorts of dialogues you know
between the US and Iran for example or
Iran and countries in this region it
just doesn't work that way so even
though there are these attempts at
diplomacy going on and they're important
um I think how how vital they might be
how crucial they might be how much they
might work is Up For Debate Anna thanks
for taking us through that Anna Foster
speaking to us uh from the Israel
Lebanon board